---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/introspection/one-year-to-live/","noteIcon":"2"}
---

# Q. What would I do if I have One Year to Live?

That's a good question. I would stop what I am doing now and think about it deeply. I would grab a notebook and design what I really want from life. What really matters in my life? What I want to do? What I want to be remembered for? If it was to come to me today, I would think about what is possible now and in this moment.

I would want to do the following things:
1. I would write down my life experiences, principles and everything I know about life in the Mathnuscripts. All my hopes and fears for the futures will be laid out in my writing. I would then create an LLM model to parse through these notes and create a chatbot or even AI agent that people can talk to and get responses from in voice and text.
2. I would buy a bike and travel the world on it. I would go to so many different places. I would ride from Cairo to Cape town. I would travel from China to the UK. I would travel from Canada to Chile. I would travel to all the great sites and meet all kinds of people. I would write and document it all down. I would learn from them and honour them. I would become alive on the open road. I would seek adventure. I would visit the great museums, archaeological sites and libraries. I would talk to smartest people to the most down-to-earth of them.
3. I would be with the woman I love. I know who it may be now and I will ask her to be my wife and I would give her a child. This would be the inheritor of my legacy and will continue to do the things that I cannot do. My child would get all my journals, my writing, my assets, my shareholdings. They will be my child and my wife will take care of them and nurture them into the person I was and I wanted them to be.
4. I would spend a lot more time with my family. I would even give up work to be with them. I would prioritise them before anything else. I would go on hikes with them, go for lunch and dinner, watch movies and be happy with them. I would laugh, love and cry them. I would miss them so much. I would send them the [[Introspection/The Story of My Life\|The Story of My Life]] note and I would let them know that everything is going to be okay.
5. In the event that I do have the money and the power, I would get people around the clock to work on nanobot technology to cure diseases of all kinds and the defend the body from all manner of pathogens, diseases and foreign attackers. In a bid to cure myself, I would fund the project that would save the world and other people who are suffering. I would use AI, knowledge graphs and nanotechnology to fight this disease. [[Fleeting Notes/Nanosystems\|Nanosystems]]
6. There are people I would like to meet: Elon Musk, Andrew Tate, Naval Ravikant, Jordan Peterson. I would like to talk to the great people of our time and listen to them and their stories. I would tell them about my experience and the impact they have had in my life. I would encourage to keep going to do the great things they are doing. People out here are cheering them on.