---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/introspection/preserving-a-golden-age-of-founding-and-progress/","noteIcon":"2"}
---

# Preserving a Golden Age of Founding and Progress

I have been thinking about building my golden age. An age between now and 35 where I build the foundations of the life that I want. How will it look like and what do I want to do to achieve it. 

1. I know that I want to be an entrepreneur and a founder of a great startup. 
2. I know that I want to be a thought leader in the space of tech and innovation. 
3. I eventually want to get into science and engineering but the path is undefined at the moment. 
4. I know that I want to give back and invest in young founders and early-stage startups that are making a difference in our society and the world at large. 
5. I know I want to contribute to putting Africa on the map and show our prowess as a people who can build and do great things. 
6. I know I want to explore the world and discover interesting things about our culture, humanity, history, science, geography, tech, innovation and so on. 
7. I know I want to have fun and do crazy things like party hard and get into trouble.
8. I know I want to be disciplined and build myself as a high-standing individual. 
9. I know I want to do tough things like learning how to fight, shoot a gun, defend my people against evil men. 
10. I know I want to do the unthinkable and difficult like going to Mars and hiking Olympus Mons or dive to the depth of the Mariana Trench. 
11. I know I want to drive fast cars, motorcycles, fly planes, launch rockets and sail ships. 
12. I know I want to build technological marvels that provide unlimited energy, abundant food, cure all diseases, extend life, eliminate work, exploration of the stars, understanding of the mind and so much more. 

I sometimes wonder if I really want to fall in love because I think I will lose my sense of wonder for the above. Falling in love requires settling and compromising on dreams that are too far-fetched and unattainable. It forces a man to become realistic and provide for people other than himself and the greater good. There is no concept of the greater good because you have to look after your family. You are not alone and people depend of you to make the right decisions. That responsibility is undesirable because it means you cannot move as fast you would like to. You cannot be spontaneous and random. It requires that if you choose a path, you must make it work or die trying. If you fail, the people who depend on you will suffer for it. The responsibility is too high, especially if you haven't figured out what your path in life. If you are not even sure of the path, why should you be forced to choose one and die with it. That's selling yourself short and diminishing the value of who you are. Imagine you pick a path you don't like so that you can provide for your family. It becomes very hard to transition into what you want in life. It is a huge challenge that most people cannot bear. The pain and sacrifice will be too great. Most married men would much rather continue on the path they hate than take the leap of faith into the unknown. If they do take the leap of faith, they should also live with the fact that they are casting their family into that fire as well. That's something that a married man must live with. A poor shame indeed. Therefore, it just makes sense that as a young man, you preserve and grow your potential by staying single for as long as possible until you figure out what you want from life. Let no woman tell you what you want. She knows nothing about the journey of a man and the yearning of your heart. You are a direct creation of God, He should tell you what you want. No one else.

I want to live the life of a founder and I don't want life to get in the way of that. If it does, then it will steal from me. I just have to find someone who is supportive of that journey. I don't want to be alone but I also don't want to be curtailed by someone who is not on the same wavelength as me. I want to work hard, work smart and work long hours. If a woman cannot cope with this lifestyle then that's a shame. If she cannot see that my work is more important to me than even myself then she is tripping. I would give up my sanity for my work. I would risk it all for my work. I would put myself through shit for it. It is not about comfort, it is about my work and the joy that it gives me. If you want me, you must also want my work as well. You are marrying into an already established relationship with a committed partner. You are the second wife and you should accept it. Maybe I will find someone who agrees with this notion but until then, they have to be okay with that. I have to be okay with being alone for this view on life. 

I am the captain for the ship and the ship is my work. I will go out to sea for the love of the voyage. It gives me purpose that nothing in this world can give me. It makes me feel closer to who I truly am. It makes me who I am. This is it. You cannot take that away from me because if you do, you will take me from me. You cannot have me without the work that I do. My purpose and my being are the same thing. We are one and the same. I need it, I love it, I want it. I will bask in its glory and suffer under its torment but I will always be there for it. It is my cruel master and my obedient servant. I am its steward and it is my shepherd. I follow it and it follows me. We are partners with purpose. We need each other. This is a love letter to purpose. I love it and I enjoy it. By extension, I love myself. 
{ #ff043a}
