---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/content/the-innovation-journey/1-innovation-begins/","noteIcon":""}
---

# The Innovation Journey

Get the reference to Batman. Never mind, welcome to the Innovation Journey. An attempt at writing a book about my journey as an Innovation Leader. I started as an Innovation Fellow, straight out of campus with a silent passion to build something worth something. I had a dream. Just as I finished my programme in university, an opportunity presented itself at the right time to pursue that silent dream. It came to me as a challenge and I took it on. Now, I am the co-founder of a startup in less than 3 years. In this living document, I will write out all the things I have learnt at each stage. I hope it helps you become a better builder, founder and tech enthusiast.

## Structure of Sections

I will tell this story using an articles from Balaji Srinivasan, former CTO of Coinbase and polymath. He took the time to dissect how to build a startup in this [article](https://spark-public.s3.amazonaws.com/startup/lecture_slides/lecture5-market-wireframing-design.pdf). Give it a read and it will give you context. 

1. Idea
	- What is an idea
		- Problem
		- Solution
		- Business Model
	- How do you evaluate the idea
		- Market research
			- Interviews with target   users
			- Secondary information: articles, books, reports
			- Study existing solutions
		- Analysis of data
			- Data points
			- Insights
			- Trends
			- Patterns
	- Mindset required here
2. An idea is not a mockup
	- What is an mockup
	- How do get from idea to mockup
		- Feature ideas: The way that the application will work and flow
		- Tools:
			- User stories
			- User flows
			- Wireframes
			- Mockups: Figma designs - simulate how the application will look, not how it will work
	- Mindset required here here
3. A mockup is not a prototype
	- What is a prototype
	- How do you get from mockup to prototype
		- Tools you need
			- VSCode
			- Deployment server
	- Mindset required
4. A prototype is not a program
	- What is a program
	- How do you get from prototype to program
		- Tools you need
			- Well-tested code
			- Error handling
			- Logging
	- Mindset required
6. A program is not a product
	- What is a product
	- How do you get from program to product
		- Tools you need
			- User experience
			- Copy-writing
			- Pricing - financial modelling
	- Mindset required
7. A product is not a business
	- What is a business
	- How do you get from product to business
		- Tools you need
			- Licenses
			- Payroll
			- Incorporation
	- Mindset required
8. A business is not profits
	- What is a profits
	- How do you get from business to profits
		- Tools you need
			- Financial modelling and projections
			- Cost projections
	- Mindset required