---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/fleeting-notes/choosing-your-game-will-choose-your-life/","noteIcon":"2"}
---

# Choosing your Game will Choose Your Life

Don't wait for the life you want, create it now. There is no tomorrow. Whatever you like, do it now. Whatever you are passionate about, pursue now and do it deeply. Spend money, time and effort on that thing. Be immersed in it.

Play your own game. What is your game? Your game is your life. Get a game that no one can fuck with. If you see someone fucking with your game, they are not your friend.

The game is about getting started. There is no other advice. Out of 10 days, 2 days will keep you going and the other 8 days suck. Just produce and play your game. Get out of your imagination and start doing. If you cannot start with what you have, it is not worth starting. Something you know how to build from scratch, no one can take it away from you. You know you can start, you know how to start. You have advantage over millions of people by just starting.

Simply by starting, you follow the road that leads to more roads and those roads lead to more roads. By simply moving forward, the world opens up to you and you add new things to your list of things to do. You would not have known these things if you did not start. Take it one day at a time, one lesson at a time, one dollar at a time. Explore all opportunities that present themselves. Be grateful for those opportunities. They have presented themselves at the right time and it is the best thing for you to pursue those opportunities. Life is not about having a grand plan. A grand plan helps with direction but it will not come about the way you think. The road is paved organically by the decisions we make every day. We move forward and uncover new things about the direction we are moving towards. We want to get to the top of the mountain but the path is unclear. As you move up the mountain, you learn new things, new ideas, new lessons. You encounter new opportunities, new tools, new people and new dangers. You become more aware of your environment and you grow in wisdom, knowledge and skill. You are growing in mastery and confidence. You are becoming a better human beings. And on the fateful day when you get to the top of the mountain, you will sigh a sense of relief and you will be pierced by euphoria. You will come to believe that you are happy in that moment and maybe you will be for a moment. However, that moment will fade in a few and you will long for more of what you have experienced. For those who are self-aware will understand this feeling, that the journey is more important than the destination. In that moment, you will see more destinations to go to. The peaks of other mountains will become visible before your eyes. You will see all the possibility and in many ways, the beauty of the world and the life that you have. You have a purpose and that purpose is to keep going in search of that purpose. You get to choose what path to go in and commit to it wholeheartedly. You will realise that the journeys are not just external but internal. You are diving deep into your own psyche and your own soul. You are becoming a wholesome human being.